---
layout: post
title: Building a Base With Hypertrophy Work
date: 2016-04-19 14:12:25 -0400
categories: lifting
tags:
  - lifting
  - not-programming
---

It's almost summer time and I just got done testing my maxes (455 deadlift, 435
squat, 245 bench, 240 power clean @196 lbs).  A few things are clear, I'm a
pretty good squatter, a decent deadlifter, my power clean could use work and my
bench is dreadful. My press is even worse: I met a goal of mine this semester
to overhead press 135 lbs for 3 reps, which sets me solidly at novice level. To
be fair, I have pretty long arms - with a 79 inch wingspan at 6'1" tall - but
I've long neglected my bench and overhead press and I'm really undertrained in
these movements, especially the press.

The end of this training cycle gives me time for a change of emphasis, not only
to upper body anterior work, but also to hypertrophy work. I put in a lot of
work at intensity in the previous cycle, and that paid dividends in the squat -
despite only programming zercher squats and deadlifts I gained 20 lbs on the
squat in 12 weeks. Now is the time to dial back the intensity and ramp up the
volume. In my training history thus far, not only have I ignored my pressing
weaknesses, I've also trained almost exclusively in the low repetition ranges
(<= 5) for a long time now.  At a fairly skinny 196 lbs, I think adding some
mass will be significantly beneficial in the medium to long term.

My plan is to do a lot more hypertrophy work. Specifically, I'll be following
[Greg Nuckols'][strength-theory] Slavic Swole program, because I'm fascinated
by the Bulgarian approach to training. For the unitiated, the Bulgarian
weightlifting team was a powerhouse in Olympic weightlifting in the 1970s and
80s under the tutelage of [Ivan Abadjiev][abadjiev] using a controversial
training methodology that consisted of maxing out several times everyday under
the observation of a coach. A quick google search will yield more information
for the interested.  Nuckols, a world record holding powerlifter, made his own
adaptations to the Bulgarian method for powerlifting, and the Slavic Swole
variant is one that he specifically created for powerlifters looking to gain
some mass. You can find more info at his site,
[Strengththeory][strength-theory] (for all the physics buffs, yes, that is a
pun on "string theory").

[strength-theory]: https://strengtheory.com/ 
[abadjiev]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivan_Abadjiev

I intend to follow the program (it's really more of a framework than a program)
for about a month assess my progress, and reevaluate my training then. I should
be in NYC at that time, and if I can find a good weightlifting gym, I may do
some work on my clean, while continuing to do hypertrophy work.

Going forward, I intend to pay a lot more attention to my weaknesses, and take
a longer term mindset in my training. Doing hypertrophy work may not result in
immediate PRs, but it will set a strong foundation for big strength gains in
the future.
